ten pin bowling is popular worldwide an
estimated 95 million people take part in
the sport and amazingly archeologists
have found evidence of bowling type
games from as long as 5,000 years ago
however the factory weather maid is most
definitely up to date the sports
international governing body dictates
very strict and precise specifications
for pin manufacturing to ensure pins
worldwide react uniformly to the ball as
dictated this bowling pin Factory uses
hard maple wood with a moisture level
within regulation range workers weigh
the slabs and calculate which ones
they'll group together to produce a
regulation weight pin three slabs are
glued together to form a starting block
for a single pin then they stack several
blocks in a vise and pump them tightly
until the glue dries about 15 minutes
a few light taps with the rubber mallet
will separate any stuck together blocks
a custom-designed machine then drills
three holes in each rock hollowing out
what will be the center of a bowling pin
this also removes some weight and leave
space for the wood to expand and
contract with humidity levels
they lay the block in a carousel vise
and glue a small slab of wood to each
side after 12 to 15 minutes under
pressure the glue sets giving a wider
block
they transfer it to another carousel
which runs it through a planer this
removes globs of dried excess glue and
levels the top and bottom surfaces
the process is repeated and wood slabs
are glued to the two remaining sites
after the glue fully cures for 24 hours
those sides also go through the planer
the block is now ready for the bowling
pin shape workers mount the block on a
lathe via the hole in the bottom of the
base ring as the lathe spins cutters
gradually shave away wood and the pin
shape forms
this whole operation takes about 45
seconds
excess wood is removed top and bottom
and the machine cuts and drills those
surfaces smooth
a nylon ring goes into the hole in the
pins base
next up an injection molding machine it
coats the entire pin surface in
liquefied nail then quickly cools the
night and solid this protects the wooden
pin with a hard and durable covering now
its way to make sure it falls within
regulation range between 1.5 and 1.6
kilograms finally a printing machine
spins the pin under an ink pad to apply
decorative stripes
then it's the manufacturers logo the ink
dries to the touch in just five minutes
and fully cures in 24 hours bowling pins
crafted from wood slabs in just 40
minutes plus in curing time that's
impressive
you could say we're bowled over